= Introduction =

I've worked in too many places where it never occurred to the developers that versioning and managing the database systematically is a fundamental prerequisite for managing a product.  So instead of reinventing one of these everywhere I go, here is one I hope to keep and improve for the long term.

= The basics of managing the database = 
  * Have a version table that represents the update state of the database - a single number in the table will do
  * Log all changes and who does the changes and when
  * Be able to run the version up or down
  * Automate everything so there are no mistakes and everything is repeatable

= Using =
  * Take the tar.gz distribution and unpack it to location on you hard disk, DBMIGRATE_HOME.
  * In DBMIGRATE_HOME there is a script dbmigrate.bat which runs the program, bringing up a command line menu.
  * Selection 1 in the menu allows one to create new migration scripts.  For each file name that one inputs, the program will create two migration scripts, one in the DBMIGRATE_HOME/do directory and one in the DBMIGRATE_HOME/undo directory.  One should modify these scripts after generation to contain the detailed do and undo actions one needs.
  * Selection 2 in the menu allows one to create a master migration script that a developer or dba can run from within sqlplus to do all the updates or rollbacks in one fell swoop.  The update script is called do_migration.sql and the rollback script is called undo_migration.sql.  Both are created in the DBMIGRATE_HOME directory.
  * After one has created a master migration script, there is a ant build file, DBMIGRATE_HOME/build.xml, that can be used to create a migration package suitable for sending to someone else.  To create the migration package just type 'ant' from DBMIGRATE_HOME and the migration package will be created in the DBMIGRATE_HOME/target directory.